.TH "libcrtxy option constants and functions" 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
libcrtxy option constants and functions \- 
.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBXY_options\fP"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBXY_options\fP - libcrtxy structure containing runtime options (rendering level, screen size, etc. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_INIT_LIB_CONFIG_FILE_GLOBAL\fP   CONFDIR '/libcrtxy.conf'"
.br
.RI "\fIWhere system-wide (global) config file lives. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_INIT_LIB_CONFIG_FILE_LOCAL\fP   '.libcrtxyrc'"
.br
.RI "\fIWhere user's (local) config file lives. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Enumerations"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBXY_opt_fullscreen\fP { \fBXY_OPT_WINDOWED\fP, \fBXY_OPT_FULLSCREEN_REQUEST\fP, \fBXY_OPT_FULLSCREEN_REQUIRED\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIXY_opt_fullscreen - libcrtxy display settings for options.fullscreen. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBXY_opt_alpha\fP { \fBXY_OPT_ALPHA_BLEND\fP, \fBXY_OPT_ALPHA_FAKE\fP, \fBXY_OPT_ALPHA_OFF\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIXY_opt_alpha - libcrtxy alpha-blending settings for options.alpha. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBXY_opt_scaling\fP { \fBXY_OPT_SCALE_BEST\fP, \fBXY_OPT_SCALE_FAST\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIXY_opt_scaling - libcrtxy bitmap scaling quality settings for options.scaling. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define XY_INIT_LIB_CONFIG_FILE_GLOBAL   CONFDIR '/libcrtxy.conf'"
.PP
Where system-wide (global) config file lives. 
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Make config locations configurable at build (FIXME) 
.RE
.PP

.SS "#define XY_INIT_LIB_CONFIG_FILE_LOCAL   '.libcrtxyrc'"
.PP
Where user's (local) config file lives. 
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Make config locations configurable at build (FIXME) 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Enumeration Type Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "enum \fBXY_opt_fullscreen\fP"
.PP
XY_opt_fullscreen - libcrtxy display settings for options.fullscreen. 
.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIXY_OPT_WINDOWED \fP\fP
Display in a window. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_OPT_FULLSCREEN_REQUEST \fP\fP
Fullscreen; fall back to window. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_OPT_FULLSCREEN_REQUIRED \fP\fP
Fullscreen; abort if we cannot. 
.SS "enum \fBXY_opt_alpha\fP"
.PP
XY_opt_alpha - libcrtxy alpha-blending settings for options.alpha. 
.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIXY_OPT_ALPHA_BLEND \fP\fP
Combine current pixel with new pixel. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_OPT_ALPHA_FAKE \fP\fP
Combine background color with new pixel. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_OPT_ALPHA_OFF \fP\fP
Just draw new pixel. 
.SS "enum \fBXY_opt_scaling\fP"
.PP
XY_opt_scaling - libcrtxy bitmap scaling quality settings for options.scaling. 
.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIXY_OPT_SCALE_BEST \fP\fP
Blend to smooth any stretching. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_OPT_SCALE_FAST \fP\fP
Stretch pixels with no blending. 

