.TH "libcrtxy color manipulation and conversion" 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
libcrtxy color manipulation and conversion \- 
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_color\fP \fBXY_setcolor\fP (Uint8 r, Uint8 g, Uint8 b, Uint8 a)"
.br
.RI "\fICombines values for R, G, B and A components into an \fBXY_color\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBXY_getcolor\fP (\fBXY_color\fP c, Uint8 *r, Uint8 *g, Uint8 *b, Uint8 *a)"
.br
.RI "\fIBreaks an \fBXY_color\fP into its R, G, B and A components. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef Uint32 \fBXY_color\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIXY_color - libcrtxy color type. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Typedef Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "typedef Uint32 \fBXY_color\fP"
.PP
XY_color - libcrtxy color type. 
.PP
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBXY_color\fP XY_setcolor (Uint8 r, Uint8 g, Uint8 b, Uint8 a)"
.PP
Combines values for R, G, B and A components into an \fBXY_color\fP. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIr\fP Red component (between 0 and 255). 
.br
\fIg\fP Green component (between 0 and 255). 
.br
\fIb\fP Blue component (between 0 and 255). 
.br
\fIa\fP Alpha component (between 0 (transparent) and 255 (opaque)). 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
An \fBXY_color\fP representing the RGBA values provided. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void XY_getcolor (\fBXY_color\fP c, Uint8 * r, Uint8 * g, Uint8 * b, Uint8 * a)"
.PP
Breaks an \fBXY_color\fP into its R, G, B and A components. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIc\fP An \fBXY_color\fP from which color components should be extracted. 
.br
\fIr\fP Pointer to a variable to contain the red component. 
.br
\fIg\fP Pointer to a variable to contain the blue component. 
.br
\fIb\fP Pointer to a variable to contain the green component. 
.br
\fIa\fP Pointer to a variable to contain the alpha component (0 represents transparent, 255 represents opaque). 
.RE
.PP

