.TH "Drawing primitives." 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Drawing primitives. \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBXY_draw_line\fP (\fBXY_fixed\fP x1, \fBXY_fixed\fP y1, \fBXY_fixed\fP x2, \fBXY_fixed\fP y2, \fBXY_color\fP color, \fBXY_fixed\fP thickness)"
.br
.RI "\fIDraw a single line between (x1,y1) and (x2,y2) (in canvas virtual world units) and in the specified color/alpha and thickness. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_draw_lines\fP (\fBXY_lines\fP *lines)"
.br
.RI "\fIDraw a collection of lines. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBXY_draw_one_line\fP (\fBXY_line\fP line)"
.br
.RI "\fIDraw a single line using an \fBXY_line\fP struct. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBXY_draw_point\fP (\fBXY_fixed\fP x, \fBXY_fixed\fP y, \fBXY_color\fP color, \fBXY_fixed\fP thickness)"
.br
.RI "\fIDraw a point at (x,y) (in canvas virtual world units) in the specified color/alpha and thickness. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void XY_draw_line (\fBXY_fixed\fP x1, \fBXY_fixed\fP y1, \fBXY_fixed\fP x2, \fBXY_fixed\fP y2, \fBXY_color\fP color, \fBXY_fixed\fP thickness)"
.PP
Draw a single line between (x1,y1) and (x2,y2) (in canvas virtual world units) and in the specified color/alpha and thickness. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIx1\fP is the X coordinate of the line's starting point. 
.br
\fIy1\fP is the Y coordinate of the line's starting point. 
.br
\fIx2\fP is the X coordinate of the line's ending point. 
.br
\fIy2\fP is the Y coordinate of the line's ending point. 
.br
\fIcolor\fP is an \fBXY_color\fP representing the color and transparency of the line. 
.br
\fIthickness\fP is an \fBXY_fixed\fP representing the thickness of the line. 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Create line clip routine (for efficiency) 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP XY_draw_lines (\fBXY_lines\fP * lines)"
.PP
Draw a collection of lines. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIlines\fP is an \fBXY_lines\fP pointer with a collection of lines to draw. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
On success: \fBXY_TRUE\fP. On failure, \fBXY_FALSE\fP, and sets error code to one of the following: 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBXY_ERR_LINES_INVALID\fP 
.PP
.RE
.PP

.SS "void XY_draw_one_line (\fBXY_line\fP line)"
.PP
Draw a single line using an \fBXY_line\fP struct. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIline\fP is an \fBXY_line\fP struct representing a line to draw. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void XY_draw_point (\fBXY_fixed\fP x, \fBXY_fixed\fP y, \fBXY_color\fP color, \fBXY_fixed\fP thickness)"
.PP
Draw a point at (x,y) (in canvas virtual world units) in the specified color/alpha and thickness. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIx\fP is the X coordinate of the point. 
.br
\fIy\fP is the Y coordinate of the point. 
.br
\fIcolor\fP is an \fBXY_color\fP representing the color and transparency of the point. 
.br
\fIthickness\fP is an \fBXY_fixed\fP representing the thickness of the point. 
.RE
.PP

