.TH "XY_err - libcrtxy error reporting" 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
XY_err - libcrtxy error reporting \- 
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_err\fP \fBXY_errcode\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIGets the most recent error code. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "const char * \fBXY_errstr\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIGets a string representing the most recent error code. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBXY_print_options\fP (FILE *fi, \fBXY_options\fP opts)"
.br
.RI "\fIDumps options in opts to the file stream (eg, stderr or an opened logfile). \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Enumerations"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBXY_err\fP { \fBXY_ERR_NONE\fP, \fBXY_ERR_OPTION_BAD\fP, \fBXY_ERR_OPTION_UNKNOWN\fP, \fBXY_ERR_FILE_CANT_OPEN\fP, \fBXY_ERR_MEM_CANT_ALLOC\fP, \fBXY_ERR_INIT_VIDEO\fP, \fBXY_ERR_INIT_DISPLAY\fP, \fBXY_ERR_INIT_UNSUPPORTED_BPP\fP, \fBXY_ERR_BITMAP_CANT_DECODE\fP, \fBXY_ERR_BITMAP_CANT_CONVERT\fP, \fBXY_ERR_BITMAP_CANT_SCALE\fP, \fBXY_ERR_LINES_INVALID\fP, \fBNUM_XY_ERRS\fP }"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Enumeration Type Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "enum \fBXY_err\fP"
.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_NONE \fP\fP
No error. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_OPTION_BAD \fP\fP
Bad value to an option. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_OPTION_UNKNOWN \fP\fP
Unrecognized option. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_FILE_CANT_OPEN \fP\fP
Cannot open file. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_MEM_CANT_ALLOC \fP\fP
Cannot allocate memory. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_INIT_VIDEO \fP\fP
Cannot initialize video subsystem. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_INIT_DISPLAY \fP\fP
Cannot open display. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_INIT_UNSUPPORTED_BPP \fP\fP
Unsupported (so far as we're concerned) bpp. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_BITMAP_CANT_DECODE \fP\fP
Error decoding image file (IMG_Load failed). 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_BITMAP_CANT_CONVERT \fP\fP
Cannot convert a surface to the display fmt. 
.PP

.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_BITMAP_CANT_SCALE \fP\fP
Cannot scale an image (probably mem. 
.PP
alloc. fail) 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_ERR_LINES_INVALID \fP\fP
Invalid (NULL?) group of lines. 
.TP
\fB\fINUM_XY_ERRS \fP\fP

.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBXY_err\fP XY_errcode (void)"
.PP
Gets the most recent error code. 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
the latest error code value. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "const char* XY_errstr (void)"
.PP
Gets a string representing the most recent error code. 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
a string containing a human-readable message describing the latest error code value. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void XY_print_options (FILE * fi, \fBXY_options\fP opts)"
.PP
Dumps options in opts to the file stream (eg, stderr or an opened logfile). 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIfi\fP is a file pointer to output to (stderr or stdout could be used, or a file that you've opened for write or append using fopen()) 
.br
\fIopts\fP is a pointer to an options structure that has been filled. 
.RE
.PP

