.TH "libcrtxy fixed-point" 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
libcrtxy fixed-point \- 
.SS "Modules"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBFixed-point math functions.\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_FIXED_SHIFT\fP   16"
.br
.RI "\fIHow much to shift ints to get a fixed-point value. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_FIXED_SHIFT_HALF\fP   8"
.br
.RI "\fIFor half-shift during mult & divide macros. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_FIXED_ONE\fP   (1 << XY_FIXED_SHIFT)"
.br
.RI "\fIQuick way to get '1' as an XY_fixed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_FIXED_HALF\fP   (1 << (XY_FIXED_SHIFT - 1))"
.br
.RI "\fIQuick way to get '0.5' as an XY_fixed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_FIXED_MAX\fP   0x7FFFFFFF"
.br
.RI "\fIMaximum value an XY_fixed can hold. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_FIXED_MIN\fP   -(0x80000000)"
.br
.RI "\fIMinimum value an XY_fixed can hold. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_FIXED_NAN\fP   XY_FIXED_MAX"
.br
.RI "\fINot-a-number (NAN), occurs when you divide by zero. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef Sint32 \fBXY_fixed\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIXY_fixed - libcrtxy fixed-point type. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define XY_FIXED_SHIFT   16"
.PP
How much to shift ints to get a fixed-point value. 
.PP

.SS "#define XY_FIXED_SHIFT_HALF   8"
.PP
For half-shift during mult & divide macros. 
.PP

.SS "#define XY_FIXED_ONE   (1 << XY_FIXED_SHIFT)"
.PP
Quick way to get '1' as an XY_fixed. 
.PP

.SS "#define XY_FIXED_HALF   (1 << (XY_FIXED_SHIFT - 1))"
.PP
Quick way to get '0.5' as an XY_fixed. 
.PP

.SS "#define XY_FIXED_MAX   0x7FFFFFFF"
.PP
Maximum value an XY_fixed can hold. 
.PP

.SS "#define XY_FIXED_MIN   -(0x80000000)"
.PP
Minimum value an XY_fixed can hold. 
.PP

.SS "#define XY_FIXED_NAN   XY_FIXED_MAX"
.PP
Not-a-number (NAN), occurs when you divide by zero. 
.PP
.SH "Typedef Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "typedef Sint32 \fBXY_fixed\fP"
.PP
XY_fixed - libcrtxy fixed-point type. 
.PP

