.TH "Initializing and quitting libcrtxy." 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Initializing and quitting libcrtxy. \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_init\fP (\fBXY_options\fP *opts, \fBXY_fixed\fP canvasw, \fBXY_fixed\fP canvash)"
.br
.RI "\fIInitialize SDL (video only) and libcrtxy (with rendering and video options from opts), and set the virtual canvas size. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBXY_quit\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIShut down libcrtxy and SDL. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP XY_init (\fBXY_options\fP * opts, \fBXY_fixed\fP canvasw, \fBXY_fixed\fP canvash)"
.PP
Initialize SDL (video only) and libcrtxy (with rendering and video options from opts), and set the virtual canvas size. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIopts\fP is a pointer to an options structure that has been filled. 
.br
\fIcanvasw\fP is the width (in XY_fixed units) of a virtual canvas which will be scaled to the real display. 
.br
\fIcanvash\fP is the height (in XY_fixed units) of a virtual canvas which will be scaled to the real display. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
On success: \fBXY_TRUE\fP. On failure, \fBXY_FALSE\fP, and sets error code to one of the following: 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBXY_ERR_INIT_VIDEO\fP 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBXY_ERR_MEM_CANT_ALLOC\fP 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBXY_ERR_INIT_DISPLAY\fP 
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBXY_ERR_INIT_UNSUPPORTED_BPP\fP
.PP
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Allow setting window class (SDL_VIDEO_X11_WMCLASS=xxx.yyy) 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Allow enabling/disabling screensaver (SDL_VIDEO_ALLOW_SCREENSAVER=1) 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Allow positioning the window (SDL_VIDEO_WINDOW_POS=center/nopref/...) 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Allow setting window icon (SDL_WM_SetIcon()) 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Allow setting window title (SDL_WM_SetCaption()) 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Allow hiding mouse (SDL_ShowCursor()) (separate function?) 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Allow resizable windows (SDL_RESIZABLE) 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void XY_quit (void)"
.PP
Shut down libcrtxy and SDL. 
.PP

