.TH "Intersection tests." 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Intersection tests. \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_lines_intersect\fP (\fBXY_line\fP line1, \fBXY_line\fP line2, \fBXY_fixed\fP *intersect_x, \fBXY_fixed\fP *intersect_y, \fBXY_intersection\fP *result)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns whether two lines intersect. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_line_groups_intersect\fP (\fBXY_lines\fP *lines1, \fBXY_lines\fP *lines2)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns whether any lines in one group intersect any lines in another. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP XY_lines_intersect (\fBXY_line\fP line1, \fBXY_line\fP line2, \fBXY_fixed\fP * intersect_x, \fBXY_fixed\fP * intersect_y, \fBXY_intersection\fP * result)"
.PP
Returns whether two lines intersect. 
.PP
Optionally (if not NULL), return the (x,y) coordinates of the intersection (if possible), and how the lines intersect (or don't): parallel, coincident, not intersecting, or intersecting.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIline1\fP is an \fBXY_line\fP structure containing a line. 
.br
\fIline2\fP is an \fBXY_line\fP structure containing a line. 
.br
\fIintersect_x\fP is a pointer to a variable into which the X coordinates of the intersection (if any) occurred; may be NULL to ignore. 
.br
\fIintersect_y\fP is a pointer to a variable into which the Y coordinates of the intersection (if any) occurred; may be NULL to ignore. 
.br
\fIresult\fP is a pointer to an XY_intersection variable into which the type of intersection (if any) occurred; may be NULL to ignore. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
\fBXY_TRUE\fP if the lines intersect or are coincident, \fBXY_FALSE\fP if they do not intersect or are parallel. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP XY_line_groups_intersect (\fBXY_lines\fP * lines1, \fBXY_lines\fP * lines2)"
.PP
Returns whether any lines in one group intersect any lines in another. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIlines1\fP is an \fBXY_lines\fP pointer containing a collection of lines. 
.br
\fIlines2\fP is an \fBXY_lines\fP pointer containing a collection of lines. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
\fBXY_TRUE\fP if any lines in 'lines1' intersect or are coincident with any lines in 'lines2', \fBXY_FALSE\fP if not. 
.RE
.PP

