.TH "libcrtxy geometry" 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
libcrtxy geometry \- 
.SS "Modules"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBLine collection manipulation.\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBIntersection tests.\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBXY_line\fP"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBXY_line\fP - libcrtxy structure representing a single line. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBXY_lines\fP"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBXY_lines\fP - libcrtxy structure representing a group of lines. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBXY_THIN\fP   XY_FIXED_ONE"
.br
.RI "\fIMinimum line thickness. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Enumerations"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBXY_intersection\fP { \fBXY_INTERSECTION_NONE\fP, \fBXY_INTERSECTION_INTERSECTING\fP, \fBXY_INTERSECTION_PARALLEL\fP, \fBXY_INTERSECTION_COINCIDENT\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIXY_intersection - libcrtxy line intersection results. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Add inside-polygon test 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Add distance calculator 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Add wrapped lines to a group (a la Asteroids) 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Clip lines in a group 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define XY_THIN   XY_FIXED_ONE"
.PP
Minimum line thickness. 
.PP

.SH "Enumeration Type Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "enum \fBXY_intersection\fP"
.PP
XY_intersection - libcrtxy line intersection results. 
.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIXY_INTERSECTION_NONE \fP\fP
Lines do not intersect and are not parallel. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_INTERSECTION_INTERSECTING \fP\fP
Lines intersect at a point. 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_INTERSECTION_PARALLEL \fP\fP
Lines are parallel (do not intersect). 
.TP
\fB\fIXY_INTERSECTION_COINCIDENT \fP\fP
Lines are coincident (and, hence, intersect). 

