.TH "XY_options" 3 "25 Dec 2008" "libcrtxy" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
XY_options \- \fBXY_options\fP - libcrtxy structure containing runtime options (rendering level, screen size, etc.  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <crtxy.h>\fP
.PP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdisplayw\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIWidth of window or fullscreen display. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdisplayh\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIHeight of window or fullscreen display. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdisplaybpp\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDisplay depth (16bpp, 24bpp, 32bpp). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_opt_fullscreen\fP \fBfullscreen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIWindow, Want Fullscreen or Require Fullscreen? \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_opt_alpha\fP \fBalpha\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAlpha-blend, fake it, or none at all (just on/off)? \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBantialias\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAnti-alias lines (Xiaolin Wu) or not (Bresenham)? \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBgamma_correction\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIGamma correction when anti-aliasing. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBblur\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAdd blur effect? \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBadditive\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAdditive pixel effect? \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBbackgrounds\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISupport fullscreen background. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXY_opt_scaling\fP \fBscaling\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFast or Best scaling? \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
\fBXY_options\fP - libcrtxy structure containing runtime options (rendering level, screen size, etc. 

) 
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int \fBXY_options::displayw\fP"
.PP
Width of window or fullscreen display. 
.PP

.SS "int \fBXY_options::displayh\fP"
.PP
Height of window or fullscreen display. 
.PP

.SS "int \fBXY_options::displaybpp\fP"
.PP
Display depth (16bpp, 24bpp, 32bpp). 
.PP

.SS "\fBXY_opt_fullscreen\fP \fBXY_options::fullscreen\fP"
.PP
Window, Want Fullscreen or Require Fullscreen? 
.PP
.SS "\fBXY_opt_alpha\fP \fBXY_options::alpha\fP"
.PP
Alpha-blend, fake it, or none at all (just on/off)? 
.PP
.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_options::antialias\fP"
.PP
Anti-alias lines (Xiaolin Wu) or not (Bresenham)? 
.PP
.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_options::gamma_correction\fP"
.PP
Gamma correction when anti-aliasing. 
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
Support gamma values (only doing 2.2 (close to sRGB) at the moment) 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_options::blur\fP"
.PP
Add blur effect? 
.PP
.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_options::additive\fP"
.PP
Additive pixel effect? 
.PP
.SS "\fBXY_bool\fP \fBXY_options::backgrounds\fP"
.PP
Support fullscreen background. 
.PP
.SS "\fBXY_opt_scaling\fP \fBXY_options::scaling\fP"
.PP
Fast or Best scaling? 
.PP


.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libcrtxy from the source code.
